#Tool Skeleton
***
This is skeleton code for adding your own entries to the Arduino Tools
dropdown, since the example code shipped with arduino 1.6.5 doesn't 
actually work.
***
##How to install the Tool\_Skeleton Repository Files
***
First, grab the Arduino source code from their git repository. Make sure
to install all the various tools you need to build Arduino 1.6.5 (or
higher, unless they change stuff (again.))

Make sure you can build Arduino. If you can't, you probably won't be
able to build tools for it either.


Dive into the build/shared/tools directory, and  and clone this archive
into a directory named Tool_Skeleton there. If you downloaded the zip archive,
rename the directory Tool_Skeleton-master to Tool_Skeleton and put it in
build/shared/tools. Tool_Skeleton based tools won't build without all the 
Arduino stuff upstream.

When correctly installed, the directory tree should look like this:

	Arduino-master/build/shared 
	└── tools
	    └── Tool_Skeleton
	        ├── bin
	        │   └── com
	        │       └── tool_skeleton
	        │           └── Tool_Skeleton.class
	        ├── build.xml
	        ├── make.sh
	        ├── src
	        │   └── Tool_Skeleton.java
	        └── tool
	            └── Tool_Skeleton.jar

Everything under bin /should/ be automatically generated by ant, but
it's easier this way, and the compiled jar I've included is smaller than this 
document.
***
##How to use Tool\_Skeleton
***
If you've written many Arduino sketches, Tool\_skeleton should seem
eerily familiar. Once all the declarations are done, your code actually
goes in the init() method and the run() method. There's some housework
to take care of before we get started.

First, rename the package It needs to be com.\<your package name\>. Don't
take out the com. You'll mess up the paths.

Import whatever imports you need next.

Next, declare the public class.


	public class <your class name> implements Tool { Editor editor;
		public void init(Editor editor) { this.editor = editor; }

Next, declare the title as it will be seen in the Tools menu:

	public String getMenuTitle() 
		{ return "Your Tool's Name in the Menu"; }

Everything else goes in run(). The stuff that goes in run can be calls
to the editor class or, with some tinkering and includes (make sure you
modify the classpaths in build.xml), you can abuse most of the classes
that are part of Arduino.
***
##How to build Tool\_Skeleton
***
cd into the Tool\_Skeleton directory. Build the tool with ant. 

	$ant

Ant should have a lot to say, and it should look something like this:

	Buildfile:
	<your home>/Arduino-master/build/shared/tools/Tool\_Skeleton/build.xml

	compile: [javac] Compiling 1 source file to
	<your home>/Arduino-master/build/shared/tools/Tool\_Skeleton/bin

	build: [jar] Building jar:
	<your home>/Arduin-master/build/shared/tools/Tool\_Skeleton/tool/Tool\_Skeleton.jar

	BUILD SUCCESSFUL Total time: 0 seconds
***
##Where to put Tools
***
Your finished tool is in
Arduino-master/build/shared/tools/Tool\_Skeleton.

To install, go to your Sketchbook directory and create a directory
called "tools". (or CD into if it exists)

Move the directory formerly known as
Arduino-master/build/shared/tools/Tool\_Skeleton into Sketchbook/tools

Like this:

	sketchbook
	└── tools
	    └── Tool_Skeleton
	        ├── bin
	        │   └── com
	        │       └── tool_skeleton
	        │           └── Tool_Skeleton.class
	        ├── build.xml
	        ├── make.sh
	        ├── src
	        │   └── Tool_Skeleton.java
	        └── tool
	            └── Tool_Skeleton.jar

Could you just put the bin directory in the tools directory of sketchbook
and have it work? Probably, but I haven't tried it.
***
##Caviats
***
I'm pretty sure make.sh doesn't work. I will probably remove it
down the road.

build.xml doesn't contain much in the way of useful paths into the guts
of Arduino. I'll fix that soon by backporting from the project I
actually built Tool\_Skeleton to understand.

